# What is powershell ? 

- PowerShell is a cross-platform task automation , made up of a command-line shell .
- scripting language.
- Unlike the old CMD (which only processes text), PowerShell is built on the **.NET Framework** and processes **Objects**.
- **The Pipeline (`|`):** In CMD, the pipeline passes text. In PowerShell, it passes **complete objects**.  ex : `Get-Service | Where-Object {$_.Status -eq "Stopped"}` (This finds the service objects, then filters them).
- If you run `Get-Process`, you aren't just looking at text; you are looking at a live object that has properties (ID, Name, CPU) and methods (Kill, Start).



#   Powershell for pentester : 
PowerShell is exploitation tool 
- You can run complex scripts directly in RAM without ever touching the hard drive. This helps bypass traditional Antivirus (AV) that only scans files on disk.
- PowerShell can talk directly to the deepest parts of the Windows OS. You can inject shellcode, capture keystrokes, or dump memory using PowerShell.
- Tools like **PowerView** (part of PowerSploit) allow you to map out an entire domain, find "Domain Admin" sessions, and identify misconfigured permissions with just a few commands.

Windows often blocks scripts by default. Pentesters bypass this easily:
```powershell 
powershell.exe -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -File script.ps1
```
- Modern blue teams use **PowerShell Logging** (Script Block Logging) to catch hackers. As a Pentester, your goal is to learn how to bypass these logs or obfuscate your code so it looks like "normal" admin activity.